Title
Virar - Offering A Luxury Lifestyle that lasts a lifetime

Link
https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/business/india-business/virar-offering-a-luxury-lifestyle-that-lasts-a-lifetime/articleshow/80279306.cms

Date & Time
Jan 15, 2021, 10:00  IST

Text
When it comes to buying a flat in Mumbai and MMR, it’s nearly impossible to get everything you’re looking for in a property. There’s either lesser amenities or a problem with the area and you’re left not fully content, but just satisfied or at best at peace with the decision that you must take.

Buyers today especially, are more interested in buying homes that don’t just provide four walls to live in, but a community that you can rely on. For familial matters or personal, a good community that boasts of all the amenities can always help turn the tide in favour of the builders who want to get their projects sold.

One such area that’s seeing a lot of buzz off late is Virar. It’s got everything you’re looking for in a region like Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR). There are plenty of infrastructure development projects including Yazoo Park, international schools and shopping centers such as Reliance Digital, Big Bazaar etc. within walking distance. Finally, you can also step it up a notch and head straight to weekend getaways such as Arnala Beach which are accessible by road. Recently confirmed Versova – Virar sea Link is a huge addon for the locality and will be definitely a reason for one to buy their home here.

The suburb of Virar is spacious, has a great community around, is safe and is an up and coming area of MMR. This kind of space in this type of an area is unheard of and is definitely a step up in the ladder of luxury.





With the promise of a lifestyle that is aspirational yet affordable, excellent yet accessible and most importantly, realistic, Bachraj Lifespace has everything you’d drearn for in a residential complex in an excellent suburb of MMR. With its 19 storeys high rise towers starting at just Rs. 32.88 lacs, it’s on the wish list of most.

Some of the amenities which you and your family can access and enjoy include a full-fledged jogging track, a multi-sport zone which includes a half basketball court, volleyball court, mini football area and also amphi-seating. There is also a stretching lawn and a dedicated senior citizen corner.

Other amenities include an outdoor chess plaza, a toddler’s play area, cricket nets for practice, ladies corner, reflexology park, multipurpose hall and so much more!

Bachraj Lifespace is also located in the prime locality of YK nagar, Behind McDonalds and BigBazaar.





The project has already sold 180 units in the phase 1, partly due to the amazing EMI scheme of just Rs. 15,000/month. After this success, the builders are planning on expanding and launching the higher floor flats. There’s another special payment scheme, where a buyer needs to just pay 10% upfront and EMI starts from fit outs.

With amenities that are excellent for home buyers to invest in, Bachraj Lifespace is your best bet for a modern-day, luxurious and well-encompassed residential complex that’s designed to make all your dreams come true.



Your dream is safe with Bachraj developers who will ensure you get the best facilities for your money. The company is known for its excellent reputation for delivering as promised and projects such as Bachraj Residency, Bachraj Paradise, Bachraj Landmark and Bachraj Avenue are testament to this fact. They have also completed the milestone of delivering 1000 homes and completing 1 million square feet in the last 12 years.

So, take a chance and give your dreams the impetus they need. Bachraj Lifespace is waiting for you to enjoy a luxury lifestyle that lasts a lifetime!

Contact Information -

Bachraj Lifespace: +917666450450

https://www.bachrajlifespace.in/



