Title
Netherlands orders additional Covid test four hours before departure

Link
https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/business/india-business/netherlands-orders-additional-covid-test-four-hours-before-departure/articleshow/80423936.cms

Date & Time
Jan 23, 2021, 18:39  IST

Text
NEW DELHI: Passengers travelling to the Netherlands are now required to undergo awithin four hours of their flight departure time at the origin. This is in addition to the existing requirement of getting the RT-PCR test done within 72 hours of arrival time in Holland.

A negative result from the new 4-hour pre-departure test will be needed to board flights to Netherlands. The rule is effective immediately and is the latest in the tightening of testing norms by various countries after the emergence of new and more infectious strains of Coronavirus.

"Cost of the (new 4-hour) test will be borne by passengers. They are requested to arrive at the airport 5-6 hours prior as check-in will be permitted only after obtaining the test result," KLM said in a travel advisory issued Saturday.

Holland's four-hour is the shortest pre-departure testing time that ranges from 96 to 48 hours for other countries.



"The latest advisory by the government of the Netherlands requires all passengers arriving in the Netherlands effective January 23, 2021, to undergo a rapid antigen test within 4 hours prior to departure," KLM India tweeted on Saturday.

India has an air bubble arrangement with the Netherlands and France and Air France-KLM operate flights under that along with.

From India, KLM says it "has made arrangements with the labs at the airport. KLM globally has made network adjustments, at the moment India operations are as scheduled."

The four-hour pre-departure test is mandatory for all passengers going to Amsterdam, including transit flyers.

"This (4-hour) test is in addition to the existing mandatory RT-PCR test (maximum 72 hours prior arrival in Netherlands) regulations and test requirements. For departures ex India, KLM has made arrangements with the laboratories at the airport for the administration of the required antigen test" a travel advisory by KLM says. These arrangements have been made at airports of Indian cities to which KLM currently operate like Bengaluru, Mumbai and Delhi.

Due to the fast evolving nature of countries' responses to the Covid outbreak, all passengers are personally responsible to ascertain eligibility based on entry requirements for transit and destination countries, it adds.

An increasing number of countries are tightening their Covid norms after the new and more infectious strains began to emerge.

will require all passengers and crew to wear medical protective category — and not everyday use — masks from February 1. The new rule, applicable on all Lufthansa Group airlines on flights to and from Germany. Lufthansa operates flights to and from India under an air bubble arrangement.

From February 1, “passengers will be required to wear either a surgical mask or an FFP2 mask or mask with the KN95/N95 standard during boarding, the flight and when leaving the aircraft. Everyday masks are then no longer permitted,” Lufthansa said in a statement on Friday.

UK and US have asked passengers flying there to test negative for Covid before being allowed on flights headed there.

