Title
IndiGo 8th biggest airline in terms of flights this month; UAE-India second busiest route

Link
https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/business/india-business/indigo-8th-biggest-airline-in-terms-of-flights-this-month-uae-india-second-busiest-route/articleshow/80392268.cms

Date & Time
Jan 21, 2021, 23:16  IST

Text
NEW DELHI: The UAE-India corridor has emerged as the second busiest country pair this month, with Mexico-US the biggest in terms of seats deployed by airlines flying between two countries, according to UK-based air consultancy firm OAG.

IndiGois currently the world’s eight biggest airline globally and Delhi Airport the 12th biggest, in terms of capacity deployment by airlines.

OAG data airlines flying between Mexico and US have deployed 33 lakh seats this month. India-UAE is at second spot with almost 10 lakh seats. Mexico-US seat deployment this January by airlines has returned to almost the same level of same month last year month with marginally 1% lower.

However, India-UAE seats deployment is 48% lower than January 2020.

Almost all big Indian carriers like IndiGo, Air India, SpiceJet, Vistara and GoAir and UAE ones like Emirates, Etihad and flydubai currently flights operate between the countries under an air bubble arrangement.

In terms of number of flights scheduled to be operated this January, American Airlines is at number one with 1.1 lakh flights (43% less than January 2020) followed by Delta, United and Southwest at a lakh, 77,000 and 62,500, respectively.

The big four US carriers are operating the maximum number of flights this month. They are followed by the three Chinese carriers — China Eastern, China Southern and Air China.

India’s IndiGo is at number 8 with 36,525 flights scheduled for this month — down 24% from January 2020.

The airports seeing airlines deploy maximum capacity in terms of seats, OAG data shows, this month are Guangzhou (over 35 lakh seats) which has displaced the pre-pandemic busiest air globally — Atlanta — to the second spot with 34 lakh seats.

The next four busiest airports are all in China — Beijing, Chengdu, Shenzhen and Chongqing. Delhi’s IGI Airport is at 12th spot with 24 lakh seats deployed by airlines, down 36% from same month last year.

