Title
A Quality-Oriented Debt Fund: IDFC Bond Fund – Short Term Plan

Link
https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/business/india-business/a-quality-oriented-debt-fund-idfc-bond-fund-short-term-plan/articleshow/80326350.cms

Date & Time
Jan 18, 2021, 13:50  IST

Text
It is tough times in life that teaches us the most valuable lessons. The same can be said true of investments –COVID-19 pandemic taught us the importance of having a fixed income portfolio with high quality instruments as part of one’s core allocation.

When it comes to investing in debt mutual funds, people find it difficult to understand the pros and cons of different strategies being offered. Past performance or high yield to maturity (YTMs) are not the ideal ways of selecting and allocating to debt mutual funds. Choosing the right fund should be basis investor’s risk appetite and investment horizon. There is a simple yet effective framework that helps segregate debt mutual funds into different buckets, thereby making it easier for investor to choose. This framework comprises of three distinct buckets: liquidity, core and satellite.

Liquidity: This bucket is for very short term parking of surplus or for emergency corpus

Core: This bucket ideally should form bulk of investor’s allocation – Funds that focus on high credit quality and low to moderate maturity profile

Satellite: This bucket has funds that can take higher risk – either duration risk or credit risk or both

By following this simple method and focusing on building your core allocation first, we believe that the risk in fixed income investing can be mitigated significantly.

An offering in the fixed income space that fits in the Core bucket is IDFC Bond Fund – Short Term Plan. It is an open ended short term debt scheme investing in instruments such that the Macaulay duration of the portfolio is between 1 year and 3 years. The portfolio is mostly a mix of high quality debt and money market instruments. As part of the current strategy, the average portfolio maturity is ordinarily anchored around 2 years.

Here is the latest highlight of IDFC Bond Fund – Short Term Plan:

Data as on 31st December 2020:

Average Maturity: 2.13 years

Modified Duration: 1.86 years

Macaulay Duration: 1.94 years

YTM: 4.39%

Asset Quality: 100% AAA and equivalent instruments

(AAA equivalents include sovereign, money market instruments, and cash and cash equivalents)

We believe that IDFC Bond Fund – Short Term Plan is a suitable investment option in these uncertain times given its focus on stability, liquidity and return potential of a high quality portfolio. The fund maintains a constraint on duration risk stance with its average maturity anchored around 2 years currently. The fund also has a constrained credit risk stance with its preference towards high quality instruments. The fund therefore can be an ideal fit in an investor’s core debt allocation and should be looked at for investment with a minimum horizon of 2 years.



MUTUAL FUND INVESTMENTS ARE SUBJECT TO MARKET RISKS, READ ALL SCHEME RELATED DOCUMENTS CAREFULLY.

The Disclosures of opinions/in house views/strategy incorporated herein is provided solely to enhance the transparency about the investment strategy / theme of the Scheme and should not be treated as endorsement of the views / opinions or as an investment advice. This document should not be construed as a research report or a recommendation to buy or sell any security. This document has been prepared on the basis of information, which is already available in publicly accessible media or developed through analysis of IDFC Mutual Fund. The information/ views / opinions provided is for informative purpose only and may have ceased to be current by the time it may reach the recipient, which should be taken into account before interpreting this document. The recipient should note and understand that the information provided above may not contain all the material aspects relevant for making an investment decision and the security may or may not continue to form part of the scheme’s portfolio in future. Investors are advised to consult their own investment advisor before making any investment decision in light of their risk appetite, investment goals and horizon. The decision of the Investment Manager may not always be profitable; as such decisions are based on the prevailing market conditions and the understanding of the Investment Manager. Actual market movements may vary from the anticipated trends. This information is subject to change without any prior notice. The Company reserves the right to make modifications and alterations to this statement as may be required from time to time. Neither IDFC Mutual Fund / IDFC AMC Trustee Co. Ltd./ IDFC Asset Management Co. Ltd nor IDFC, its Directors or representatives shall be liable for any damages whether direct or indirect, incidental, punitive special or consequential including lost revenue or lost profits that may arise from or in connection with the use of the information.

