Title
After banks, regulators to appeal against NCLT order

Link
https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/business/india-business/after-banks-regulators-to-appeal-against-nclt-order/articleshow/80441068.cms

Date & Time
Jan 25, 2021, 15:09  IST

Text
NEW DELHI: After banks, regulators, including the RBI, are set to appeal against an order of the National Company Law Tribunal’s (NCLT’s) Kolkata bench, which had allowed a moratorium on debt repayment by Srei Equipment Finance (SEFL). Some lenders have already moved theNational Company Law Appellate Tribunal(NCLAT) to stay the order and appeal against it.

Banking sources told TOI that the RBI too will file a petition in the coming days as the NCLT had stopped all government or regulatory authorities from taking any coercive steps against the non-bank finance company, “including reporting in any form and/or changing the account status of the company from being a standard asset”.



“Creditratingagencies shall not consider any nonpayment to be a default and shall maintain the rating of SEFL at least that of investment grade,” an order issued late last month said.

The NCLT has asked the company to convene meetings of debenture holders,ECBlenders and perpetual debt instrument holders between May and July to work out a new scheme of arrangement. Earlier this month,CARE Ratingssaid it would continue to closely monitor the developments and is also seeking legal assistance.

SEFL had argued that the RBI allowed moratorium and loan restructuring forNBFCborrowers but finance companies were not given a moratorium. This along with the economic downturn in the wake of Covid-19, has led to an asset-liability mismatch, it argued.

The Tribunal cited section 230 of the Companies Act and other provisions of the NCLT rules along with the overall plight of NBFCs to accept the company’s plea.

Banks and lawyers, however, believe that NCLT went beyond its remit and dubbed the order “unfair”.

“The interim directions given by the Kolkata NCLT is wholly outside the ambit of its powers conferred under the provisions of the Companies Act. SREI filed a petition under section 230 wherein any compromise or restructuring arrangement would require approval of three-fourth of value of different the classes of creditors involved. Until such approval became available, the NCLT would have no power to approve any scheme. Therefore, even before any meeting of creditors was held the NCLT could not have used its inherent powers to pass interim directions to restrain third parties, much less regulatory agencies or rating agencies,” said Sitesh Mukherjee, a lawyer specialising in corporate law cases.

