Title
CSE to conduct training programme in reducing emissions from transport

Link
https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/business/india-business/cse-to-conduct-training-programme-in-reducing-emissions-from-vehicles/articleshow/80445634.cms

Date & Time
Jan 25, 2021, 12:46  IST

Text
CHENNAI: TheCentre for Science and Environment(CSE) is conducting a training programme on "Strategies to reduceemissionsfromtransport"online, from February 13 to 26.

It’s a two-week online (self-paced) course with 24 hours study duration (12 hours per week), said a release from the CSE.

"This programme represents our initiative to promote good regulatory practices, enhance understanding and build capacity on strategies to reduce transport sector emissions," it said.

"This programme has become necessary within the framework of the National Clean Air Programme (NCAP) that mandates cities which do not meet clean air standards to reduce particulate air pollution by 20% 30% by 2024. All city clean air action plans, therefore, have included strategies to control emissions from the transport sector to meet the clean air target, as the transport sector’s contribution to overall pollution concentration, load and exposure is substantial," said the release.

There is therefore a demand for deeper understanding of the multi-pronged strategies needed to control vehicular pollution. These encompass emissions standard roadmaps and on-road emissions management to control real world emissions; sustainable transport modes (public transport, walking and cycling), multimodal integration, parking policy and urban planning to reduce the vehicle miles travelled.

"These interventions also align with the sector-specific strategies that state governments have initiated as part of other policies and programmes. This requires deep understanding of the way these strategies need to be designed and developed for scale and effective impact for time-bound air quality improvement. Several exciting changes are underway in cities, and it is important to build capacity and a new cadre of professionals," it said.

This online course will be conducted on the Moodle and Zoom platform through a variety of tools such as recorded video lectures, classroom exercises, reading materials and resources, audio/visual methods including short films and interviews and interactions with key experts. Last date for receiving the application is February 5.

Log on to https://www.cseindia.org/online-training-course-strategies-to-reduce-emissions-from-transport-10626 for more information.

