Title
China says US military in South China Sea not good for peace

Link
https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/world/china/china-says-us-military-in-south-china-sea-not-good-for-peace/articleshow/80446507.cms

Date & Time
Jan 25, 2021, 13:45  IST

Text


BEIJING: The United States often sends ships and aircraft into theSouth China Seato "flex its muscles" and this is not good for peace, China's Foreign Ministry said on Monday, after a U.S. aircraft carrier group sailed into the disputed waterway.

The strategic South China Sea, through which trillions of dollars in trade flows each year, has long been a focus of contention between Beijing and Washington, with China particularly angered by US military activity there.

TheUS carrier groupled by the USS Theodore Roosevelt and accompanied by three warships, entered the waterway on Saturday to promote "freedom of the seas", the U.S. military said, just days afterJoe Bidenbecame US president..

"The United States frequently sends aircraft and vessels into the South China Sea to flex its muscles," the foreign ministry spokesman,Zhao Lijian, told reporters, responding to the U.S. mission.

"This is not conducive to peace and stability in the region."

China has repeatedly complained aboutU.S. Navyships getting close to islands it occupies in the South China Sea, where Vietnam, Malaysia, the Philippines, Brunei and Taiwan all have competing claims.

The carrier group entered the South China Sea at the same time as Chinese-claimed Taiwan reported incursions by Chinese air force jets into the southwestern part of its air defence identification zone, prompting concern from Washington.

China has not commented on what its air force was doing, and Zhao referred questions to the defence ministry.

He reiterated China's position that Taiwan is an inalienable part of China and that the United States should abide by the "one China" principle.

Biden's new administration says the US commitment to Taiwan is "rock-solid".

The United States, like most countries, has no formal diplomatic ties with Taiwan but is the democratic island's most important international backer and main arms supplier, to China's anger.

