Title
Farmers Republic Day parade: A beeline of tractors bound for Delhi from all directions

Link
https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/india/a-beeline-of-tractors-bound-for-delhi-from-all-directions/articleshow/80440848.cms

Date & Time
Jan 25, 2021, 08:57  IST

Text
All roads led to Delhi for a long march of tractor trolleys moving bumper to bumper from various directions inPunjab,HaryanaandRajasthanon Sunday, lending momentum to the plannedRepublic Dayfarmers’ rally in the national capital in more ways than one. On stretches of the NH-44 between Haryana’s Ambala and Sonipat, there were tractors as far as the eye could travel.

Songs of protest sung by popular Punjab singers blared from speakers as flags of farmers’ unions fluttered atop tractors headed for the Singhu-Kundli and Tikri borders. Unlike November 26 and 27, when Haryana police had put up barricades at various locations to stop the surge of farmers proceeding towards Delhi. On Sunday, the police’s role was restricted to regulating traffic at bottlenecks created by convoys of tractors.

“In a bid to ensure smooth passage, we had started from Jalandhar around midnight on Saturday. To our surprise, there were still a lot of vehicles,’’ saidZorawar Singh, who was at the wheel of a tractor carrying 15 people from his village in Punjab’s Jalandhar. Some farmers attached three to five tractors or trolleys to each other to save on fuel. In some places, modified jeeps could be seen on trolleys tethered to the tractor in front.

“When we all have to reach the same destination, why not have one tractor pull the rest? We are doing this by turn. It’s quite cost effective,” said Harbhajan Singh, a young farmer from Punjab. There was hardly any space on the road for vehicles to move beyond Murthal in Sonipat, prompting the police to divert traffic bound for other states much ahead. From Jind alone, 6,000 tractors, more than 500 of them led by women farmers, reached the Tikri border on Sunday. Nearly 5,000 farmers going towards Jaisinghpur Khera brought along payloaders to remove any blockade put up by the police.

Tek Ram Kandela, president of the Kandela khap, said, “Around 2,000 tractors left from our khap and thousands more from other khaps of the district.” Around 1,500 tractors from Rajasthan will also join the farmers’ rally in Delhi. Over 50,000 farmers from MP have already reached Delhi to take part in the January 26 rally, said Bharatiya Kisan Union state chief Anil Yadav.