Title
Ahmadullah Shah: Ayodhya Mosque to be named after the maulana who died for India's Independance

Link
https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/india/ahmadullah-shah-ayodhya-mosque-to-be-named-after-the-maulana-who-died-for-indias-independance/articleshow/80445822.cms

Date & Time
Jan 25, 2021, 16:11  IST

Text
NEW DELHI: A devout Muslim who fought the British for India's independence and was murdered while leading anarmed rebellion, Ahmadullah Shah— is the freedom fighter after whom Ayodhya's mosque could be named.

Members of the Trust accounted to develop the land given in lieu ofBabri Masjidas mandated by theSupreme Courthave confirmed the possibility of Ayodhya Mosque being dedicated toAhmadullah Shah.

Athar Hussain, secretary, Indo Islamic Cultural Foundation (IICF), said the trust is seriously contemplating on the proposal and will officially make an announcement soon after deliberation.



Ahmadullah was born in a noble warrior family of Awadh and was known as the ‘Lighthouse of Rebellion’. He is most notably known for starting the revolt of 1857.

His father Ghulam Hussain Khan was a senior official in Mysore's de facto ruler Haider Ali's army. Ahmadullah's

forefathers were big exponents of weaponry.

Coming from an affluent family, Ahmadullah had good command in the English language. He was a student of traditional Islamic education and had been trained in warfare. Ahmadullah had travelled across Britain, the Soviet Union, Iran, Iraq and had also performed Hajj.

The king of Iran having heard of Ahmadullah's successes in education and warfare offered him a position in his court however, Shah declined it and returned to India.

Ahead of the1857 revoltagainst the British which broke out in Lucknow, Ahmadullah was captured in Faizabad. However, he escaped from the prison after three months in captivity and launched 'jihad' against the British in the Awadh region.



British officer George Bruce Malleson has particularly mentioned Shah’s valour and organizational capabilities in ‘History of Indian Mutiny’, a book written in 6 volumes on the 1857 revolt.

Malleson writes that during the freedom struggle, Shah made Ayodhya the crucible of revolution against the British and triggered mutinies across the Awadh region.

He turned Masjid Sarai in Faizabad’s Chowk area as his headquarters and held meetings with freedom fighters. He struck fear and sparked panic among the British after he liberated Faizabad and larger parts of the Awadh region.

Noted researcher and historian of Awadh, Ram Shankar Tripathi, said, “While being a practising Muslim, he was also the epitome of religious unity and Ganga-Jamuni tehzeeb of Ayodhya."

"During the 1857 revolt, royals like Nana Sahib of Kanpur, Kunwar Singh of Arrah fought alongside Ahmadullah Shah. His 22nd Infantry Regiment was commanded bySubedar Ghamandi Singhand Subedar Umrao Singh in the famous Battle of Chinhat," writes Tripathi.



The British had announced a prize of 50,000 pieces of silver on Ahmadullah's head. He had been travelling across Awadh and mobilizing people citizens against the imperialists when he asked the king of Powayan Raja Jagannath Singh to join him.

on June 5, 1858, when Shah reached Singh's palace, the king rained bullets on Ahmadullah and killed him. Singh then beheaded Ahmadullah and presented his head to the magistrate who gave him the reward, thus winning favour with the British.

Malleson describes Ahmadullah's death as "Thus died the Moulvee Ahmed Oolah Shah of Faizabad. If a patriot is a man who plots and fights for independence, wrongfully destroyed, for his native country, then most certainly, the Moulvee was a true patriot."

