Title
Kargil vet now a tractor 'commander'

Link
https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/india/kargil-vet-now-a-tractor-commander/articleshow/80440893.cms

Date & Time
Jan 25, 2021, 05:34  IST

Text
AGRA: AtChillaborder, former Armyman Ramnath Singh Sikarwar, who had fought in theKargilwar, is gearing up for another “battle”. Retired and now a social activist, he is focused on farmers’ rights and busy training youngsters for the Republic Day tractor parade in Delhi. Sikarwar, 53, a former radar technician with the Army, is one of the parade commanders and has constituted six quick response teams (QRT) of six men each to combat tear gas shells and water cannons, if any, on January 26. In true military style, each QRT team has been assigned “code words”. And the QRT will act on “secret signals” of the parade commander.

BhanuPratap Singh, national president of Bharatiya Kisan Union (Bhanu), told TOI, “We have directed all the workers from across UP andother statesto report at Chilla border by Monday evening. The parade responsibility at Chilla border has been assigned to ex-Armyman Ramnath Singh Sikarwar. He is training the farmers now.”

The Centre has failed to understand the discontent among farmers, Sikarwar said. “We will hold ahistoric paradein Delhi. Farmers are being trained to maintain discipline and run a smooth show. Thousands will march on one side of the road and tractors will move in long queues on the other. Specific tasks have been assigned to a team of 25 young farmers. I will lead the parade with other senior members on tractors. We’ll give specific instructions from loudspeakers.” “Leaving nothing to chance, we have constituted six QRTs as well. In case of tear gas shells by police on us, they will shield them with wet sacks. If water cannons are used, QRTs will cordon the police vehicles from all sides and protect the farmers. The aim is to ensure that the elderly and women do not suffer any difficulties,” he said. A resident of Kathumari village ofAgra district, Sikarwar was involved in radar operations during the Kargil war and served along the LoC.

