Title
Ex-BARC CEO Partho Dasgupta's health condition stable: Taloja jail officers

Link
https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/india/ex-barc-ceo-partho-dasguptas-health-condition-stable-taloja-jail-officers/articleshow/80449971.cms

Date & Time
Jan 25, 2021, 17:17  IST

Text
MUMBAI: A report from medical officers at the Taloja central prison said that the health of ex-CEO of Broadcast Audience Research Council (BARC), Partho Dasgupta, "is stable".

Dasgupta is an accused in the alleged Television Ratings Point (TRP) rigging case.

The report also said that no symptoms of Covid-19 were detected.

It was submitted before the Bombay high court on Monday after his discharge from the state-run JJ hospital last week. He had been admitted to the hospital on January 15 due to health issues.

The report said Dasgupta, 55, was "oriented and conscious."

Last week, a sessions court had rejected Dasgupta’s bail plea.

The police had arrested the former BARC CEO on December 24 in the alleged TRP scam.

Dasgupta is accused of misusing his official position and conniving with ARG Outlier Media andArnab Goswamito manipulate TRPs and bring Republic TV to the number one rank.

A supplementary chargesheet states that Dasgupta had received a huge kickback from Republic TV with which he bought jewellery and other valuables.

Public prosecutor Deepak Thakare tendered the medical report before Justice P D Naik when Dasgupta’s plea for bail came up for hearing.

Thakare assured the court that in case of any health emergency, the jail authorities would rush him to JJ hospital.

The court had adjourned the bail hearing by a week to enable Dasgupta’s lawyer to amend the petition and seek a copy of the chargesheet. The trial court order of rejection of bail will also be placed on record before the HC which has sought a compilation of all the documents.

"His health condition is monitored daily by medical officers and special attention is given to ensure that the patient is taking his insulin doses properly and not skipping food," the health status report said.

On Friday, through his lawyer Arjun Thakur, Dasgupta had sought an urgent hearing in the bail plea as the JJ hospital was discharging him despite his health having "deteriorated".

As per the report by prison medical officers, inmaged aged above 60 are screened daily for oxygen level, pulse rate and body temperature and kept in a separate barrack, with additional facilities.

The report also said that to prevent the spread of infection, physical interviews of inmates with family and their lawyers have been stopped.

