Title
Ghazipur cops ban oil supply to tractors, SP orders probe

Link
https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/india/ghazipur-cops-ban-oil-supply-to-tractors-sp-orders-probe/articleshow/80440873.cms

Date & Time
Jan 25, 2021, 05:25  IST

Text
VARANASI: Officials at twopolice stationsinGhazipur districtleft their seniors red-faced by asking petrol pumps to stop giving oil totractorsin view of the proposed tractor rally as part of farmers’ agitation. Cops at Suhwal police station issued an order telling fuel pumps not to give oil to tractors or in drums and canes. Going a step ahead of Suhwal cops, theSaidpurpolice imposed a complete ban on movement of tractors on the highway till January 26.

SPGhazipurOm Prakash Singh was shocked when he was informed about the orders issued by the SOs of the Suhwal and Saidpur police stations and asked ASP (rural) to probe how this order was misinterpreted by the cops of the two police stations. He also made it clear that no such restrictions have been imposed in the district. The SP said he had issued directions to ensure movement of fully fit tractors on roads, especially highways, to prevent accidents in view of the ongoing Road Safety Month, but this order was misinterpreted by cops of the two police stations. SO Suhwal issued an order to petrol pumps throughnotice. This order stated, “In view of January 26, high alert has been sounded in state and prohibitory orders underSection 144CrPC are effective. In view of the possibility of farmers taking out tractor rallies a ban is imposed on movement of tractors. You are directed to stop giving oil to tractors, in drums or containers from January 22 till 26 in order to maintain peace.” The petrol pump atKalupurpasted this order of Suhwal police on the machines with additional notices that oil will not be given to tractors and in bottles. Saidpur inspector started issuing notices to tractor owners mentioning that in view of national festival, flag marches and movement of school children on roads, movement of tractors will not be allowed.

